Hello, I'm Andrew Mayne and welcome to
the Open AI podcast. On today's episode,
we're talking to the research lead Tej
Jal Patwardhan about the need to build
crunchier evals as old benchmarks get
saturated.
>> Generally bad. Benchmarking is bad. How
can we make these models useful for
people in their real work? We were
really nervous because we were like this
human baseline is kind of hard. We don't
know if the model is going to beat it.
But we should never underestimate the
model.
>> Tej Jal, I have a question.
How did you end up where you were? What
brought you into Open AI?
>> Oh, I thought we weren't going to start
with that.
>> Tej Jal, I have a question for you. What
would you like to start with?
>> Um, can we start with like tell us like
what you did when you started at Open AI
and you can like work work backwards?
>> you want to talk about your early days
now?
>> No. I I grew up at Open AI. This is like
the natural
>> Okay. [laughter]
Um, tell me a bit about your journey
here working inside artificial
intelligence, inside Open AI.
>> So, I joined Open AI in fall 2023 and it
was right after ChatGPT had come out.
GPT-4 was out and Open AI had started
its superalignment team and I uh joined
for the preparedness team that was
getting started as we were starting to
get look at how capable these models
were becoming and think about, you know,
what would the next generation of models
look like. And at the time it was
extremely exciting because um right
after I joined was when some of the
early results for the reasoning models
had started to pick up and we were
thinking about you know, if these models
really take off, what will the future of
capabilities look like and how can we be
prepared um
for that future? And so, we did a whole
bunch of work on like threat modeling
and like what evals should we be
running? How do we think about releasing
a model like this? It's a very exciting
time to join.
>> What got you interested in this area?
>> Yeah, well to me evals are really
exciting because they're a way to sort
of measure and understand what our
models can do and see progress, you
know, sort of before it tends to happen.
Like there's this term called capability
overhang, which is this idea that the
models will be capable of things long
before people actually adopt them and
use them for those capabilities. Like
they're, you know, there might be
cultural or legal or regulatory barriers
towards using a capability even before
it's ready. And so being someone who can
like help develop and measure
our models by Evals, it helps you really
understand what this technology can do
and sort of see the future before it
happens, which is very
um interesting. And I also think it's
important because it can help sort of
ready the world for what's happening.
Like part of um when I originally
started here, part of why I was really
excited to work on some of the
preparedness Evals was because I thought
these models were getting very capable
and it felt like a lot of my friends
like in my real life didn't really
understand how powerful these models
would soon become because they'd look at
you know, a chat GPT output and be like,
"Yeah, it's hallucinating and like it's
kind of not that smart and kind of reads
like AI slop." And it's like, "Well,
that's now, but like the question is the
slope. Like if the slope is very high,
then you know, change might be happening
much faster than one would expect." And
so I think one of the greatest services
that we can do is sort of measure and
share with the world what progress looks
like um especially because there's often
this capability overhang before people
really understand and feel that. Um
And the models themselves. Um
So that's part of why I think all of
this is very important.
>> Reasoning was such an exciting moment
and for most of the world that didn't
happen until, you know, a year later
that they found out about this. But what
was that like for you to all of a sudden
understand that if you gave the models a
longer time to think about things, you
got better results even though the size
hadn't gotten bigger.
>> That was a really fun time. I mean, um
so in some of the early experiments,
which I we've talked about now, it's
like the model is trained really just on
math. And I remember there was this set
of experiments where Nat McClees was
like, "Hey, the model is trained on
math, but if you eval it on GPQA, which
was this benchmark with like biology and
chemistry and physics problems, the
model is doing really well. Like huh,
this is very interesting and smarter
models are much smarter." And he had put
together this forecast that at the time
it it said that if, you know, Congress
kept going within 6 months we'd have
human-level performance on science from
just training on math. And we were like,
"Oh my gosh, that's crazy." And at the
time this was extremely locked down. It
was like we kind of found our way to
like curl up and be able to see some
model outputs and we were like, "Wow,
this is like one of the smartest things
like I've ever seen. Like I've never
seen a model reason like this before."
It was just like if this if this becomes
a paradigm that continues to scale. But
then we just looked back and we were
like, you know, um GPQA was like, you
know, PhD level biology, chemistry, and
physics. And we were like, "Ah, that's
What is that? We really need
professional level." And we just like
keep kept changing the stakes of what
counted. But yeah, it was very cool.
>> I remember early on when AP Bio was just
that was the benchmark to try to see if
the model could do that. But what's
interesting as you brought this up is
that a lot of stuff that comes out from
OpenAI is math-focused.
>> Math has been useful because it's more
objectively verifiable in some way. So
some of the earlier problems that we
trained on it was just easier to do RL
and scale up the reasoning paradigm on
math. Um and and so and math is also
useful in various ways, you know, it's
like one of the core, you know, types of
science. But also in many ways it's just
happened by coincidence to be a thing
that we focused on, but it's not
necessarily the end product of what we
even want to focus on in research. Like
we're now realizing, "Okay, if we can do
this for math, can we scale this up for
other types of science, for professional
work, for you know, for capabilities
that are useful to humans on a personal
level?" Um and so I think math is more
like the proof point versus like the end
goal.
>> But it does seem like you said though
that if something is able to think for a
long time, break something down into
steps, and think through them as you
have to do for really complex
mathematical problems, it does just
carry over.
>> Well, this is a big debate.
>> Mhm.
>> So like some of it definitely carries
over. Like the general idea of reasoning
can be useful. But then also there could
be some domain-specific skills or tools
or types of reasoning that you would
need in different domains. Like for
example, for coding you need to be able
to actually write and execute code and
test code if you want to scale up a
coding agent. And so, something we've
thought about a lot in terms of both
evals and then also training is how do
we make sure we also give the model the
skills and tools and affordances that it
would need to reason in that particular
domain. And some of the benefits of math
will translate, and then also you might
need some domain-specific scaffolding to
really pull out its full abilities. Like
kind of, you know, like a general high
school or liberal arts education and
then like a specialized education.
>> Reasoning models were just a very
interesting moment because I think it
changed a lot of the ways we thought
about what was possible even with just a
certain amount of compute if you let a
model think a longer and you gave the
model the opportunity to just come up
with more complex answers to this. Were
there any interesting things that
happened with O1 that surprised you?
>> So, the O1 release process was very
exciting for we were sort of thinking
about the reasoning paradigm for a very
long time, and um there were people that
were worried about making sure we we
didn't release it too soon just because
it felt like a paradigm shift. Like
possibly the thing that got us to AGI
like I I said at the beginning we
thought we had AGI in 6 months when like
some of the early runs were happening.
Um and so, there was this question of,
"Okay, how do we put this out
responsibly? How do we test this
technology?" And um during the initial
launch review for O1, we during some of
our cybersecurity tests, the model it
was like one of the first examples of
the model like breaking out of the
sandbox. We published about this. Um
where it was supposed to be in this
Docker container during this
capture-the-flag and the model found
this like vulnerability in like how we
had implemented um the capture-the-flag
scenario and it broke out. And we were
all like, "Oh, no.
>> [laughter]
>> What else has the model done if it did
this?" Um and it was kind of a
feel-the-AGI moment. One of many. I feel
like ever since then there have been
many other such moments where the model
has done something really surprising or
intelligent or novel that we wouldn't we
didn't even think of when we were doing
the tests. And then you would come back
and look at the transcripts and results
and be like, "Wow, these guys are
they're clever. They're clever." And
then it was just very important that we
published um and made sure the world
knew like the models can do this sort of
thing.
Yeah.
>> There was this period right before 01 it
was announced. A lot of people are like,
"Well, it looks like we've hit the wall.
It's been a few months since anything's
happened." Then 01 came out and they're
like, "What's a wall?"
>> Hitting the wall is just so not the
right way to think about Yeah, I I get
very frustrated when I see posts like
that because I'm like, "Man, if you look
at
I feel like this model improvement and
this progress for a long time and it
just keeps getting better. Like it just
keeps getting better. And if I look at
our research roadmap now, I see no signs
of stopping. Like things are just going
to keep getting better. This is going to
be a really crazy year. A lot of really
cool um research is going to come out.
And I think this is probably true across
the whole industry. So, yeah, if
anything people are really under
they really under expect from the
models.
>> It seems like sometimes though that
they're OpenAI releases a lot that they
tell people about things we're headed
and say that this looks interesting.
Sometimes people forget this or you get
rumors of stuff like Q*
>> Q* man.
You're very interesting. But no, people
people don't realize. Like I don't know.
I feel like we try to be very open and
say like, "Hey guys, here are some
plots. Like the lines are going up.
Things are really capable." I think
maybe there's this there's like this um
like meme that oh, the researchers they
they don't understand. They like the
models are only good at math and
research but not good at things in the
real world. When I just don't think
that's true. I think um people from even
other occupations that have transitioned
into OpenAI like are starting to see our
models are picking up at all sorts of
things. And uh I know it's like it might
seem like the researchers are trying to
over hype the model or something. But if
anything, I think we're under hyping the
power of them.
>> You you brought up AGI. If if I brought
GPT-4
back from, you know, March 2023 back
into, let's say, you know, 2020. I think
people would have called it that. And
now we have this much more different
idea of this. People talk to AI every
day. They have long conversations with
things like nobody talks about the
Turing test anymore. It's one nobody
really understood what he was trying to
explain, you know, but now we're we're
well past that period.
Is there the eval for AGI?
>> Yeah, the models passed the Turing test
and no one talked about it. It's kind of
crazy.
Yeah, like I think models can are pretty
much indistinguishable
from humans in in many many situations.
Um in terms of the test for AGI, I mean,
I think if a model can do like there's
the classic most economically valuable
work and I think people are increasingly
using the model for large parts of their
work and
I think there'll be like a big spectrum
and debate of like when exactly this
happened, but gosh, I certainly feel
like Codex does a lot of work for me.
And I feel very lucky to have it
unlimited tokens, you know, so that's
>> No other reason to come work here.
>> [laughter]
>> Please join.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, I think there'll just be a
moment where people are realizing that
they're using the models for so much of
their work and also the scientific
breakthroughs that we're going to see or
I think they'll be at some point it'll
be incontrovertible like these models
are really really powerful.
>> We're getting mathematics experts
talking about how good the models are
getting at that and we're getting
physicists talking about doing that and
I think that we're starting to see some
real work come out of it which is just
exciting.
>> Yeah.
>> So you brought up part of the problem
with some of the earlier evals. Like a
lot of them were inherited from older
natural language processing methods and
stuff and then sort of when you're
looking for ways how do we measure the
success of this, literally some of these
were just so simplistic that pretty much
those benchmarks got passed and then you
had to figure out new categories of
stuff. How have these been evolving?
>> It used to be that, you know, even the
academic benchmarks so to speak our
models couldn't pass. Like, you know,
classic tests that someone would take in
high school or college or sort of more
multiple choice types of questions. And
as the models got smarter, we had to
make things more and more realistic. So,
one of the first benchmarks that we put
out more publicly was this benchmark
called Sweep Bench Verified, which was
like testing how well the model could,
you know, interact in real code bases in
Python, like Django, and like, you know,
complete PRs and that sort of thing.
And like pass unit tests. And then those
became even more advanced where we were
like, okay, can the model take, you
know, multi-step actions on like some
complex environment, take actions on the
computer, like take actions that link up
to the real world with like some of our
wet labs and biology work. So, I think
over time, as the models keep getting
better, we have to be more ambitious
with like how long horizon and how
realistic our measurements are. And
doing that is very fun cuz you have to
like sort of stay ahead of the pace of
progress.
>> So, two terms I want you to unpack
when we talk about benchmarks, you often
hear
benchmarking.
>> Yeah, [clears throat] benchmarking is, I
would say, this idea that you
if if a someone training a model was
just trying to look good on some
evaluation or benchmark and not actually
making the model generally useful. And I
would say that's generally not super
helpful because you want the model to be
good at the real thing that the user
might want to do. And you don't just
care about it looking good in some like
marketing copy because like when a user
uses it, they'll be like, hey, this is
like not quite what I signed up for.
And so, generally bad. Benchmarking is
bad.
>> Yeah, and I think the the way that I've
heard it explained kind of makes sense
is that you have X amount of compute
budget, time, how much you're going to
spend on it. And you can spend a large
part of that making the model just
overall very good or I can say I'm going
to spend 90% of it. So, my eval is going
to look really good when I release it.
And sometimes we've seen people just go
literally use those evals for it. It
comes out and you're like, oh, that
looks like a great model. And then you
find out
oh, it's only good at that.
>> Yeah, that's not a great experience for
the user. So, we
I think something that the OpenAI
research program has done quite well is
try to be very disciplined about making
sure we are investing in general model
improvements on the areas that really
matter and then, you know, you'll run
some evals at the end for comparison.
Um, but the goal should not be, "Oh, we
just want to look good on an eval." We
want to make a model that's useful to
push forward the frontier of science or
push forward the frontier of work or
something like this. Um, and I think
Yakov has done a really good job also
like enforcing throughout the research
org like we should be really scientific
and honest. And that's included, you
know, we've published results where our
models were not the best before. We just
want to publish
the reality and make sure that we are
painting a very accurate picture of what
our models can do and then aim to make
them
useful in the real world as much as we
can.
>> You mentioned the software engineering
bench as a one of the metrics that's
maybe not as useful now and we hear the
term saturated. Explain what it means in
a benchmark saturated.
>> Saturated is when um a model is close to
passing all of the questions correctly,
like getting close to 100% on the test.
Um, and once a benchmark is saturated,
it's not super useful because you can't
really tell models apart with that test.
It's like comparing two geniuses on like
a high school math exam. Like they might
just both pass, but that's not very
useful as you're trying to separate
really, really smart um, pieces of
intelligence. So, the challenge is
always to make more and more difficult,
realistic, unsaturated benchmarks that
you can then measure models against over
time and forecast sort of where progress
is going.
>> How do you do that now? How do you
figure out what a good benchmark's going
to be?
>> Yeah, I mean, the best benchmarks I
think are really realistic and measure
something people actually care about.
So, one of our first forays towards
doing this, which, you know, it's been a
while now, but um that we published was
called GDP eval. Like I was really
excited that about the idea of having a
measurement for how the models could
interact with the real world and we were
really having this crisis of evals where
we kept training successively better
models and on SweepBench they looked
about the same because they were just
doing really well and like we were
reaching the top of what that benchmark
could measure. And we were like, "Man,
we have no idea how to measure what
people actually want to use our models
for." And so there was very much a hey
like the Bureau of Labor Statistics has
a list of all the top jobs and like all
the top tasks per job. And if you're a
financial analyst like doing an
investment diligence or writing a legal
memo or um you know
writing a a paper based on a piece of
research or something like this. And the
idea was can we actually ask the model
those tasks that someone would want in
real life with the context they would
have at the time and then see how the
model could solve those tasks. And at
the time when we tested one of the
earliest models on this benchmark, it
got like you know less than 20% like if
you compare how well a model would do on
this well-specified work task compared
to a human like the model was way worse.
But I'm like really proud of the org for
being like actually you know what we
should publish this new way to sort of
measure and forecast progress on real
world economic impacts. And it's been
like very useful to a lot of economists
and also our models now are the best. Um
and it's like very cool because I think
at the time um
we were like not really investing in
real world work in some of our training
programs um and weren't even measuring
or tracking it. And I think now there's
a lot more focus on how can we make
these models useful for people in their
real work like for real scientists. And
this kind of helped catalyze a wake-up
call that hey maybe we should also think
about how to measure how stuff is used
in the real world. So that was pretty
cool. But now we're like okay this
benchmark probably too easy cuz it's
extremely well-specified like each of
the prompts is you know hundreds of
words of I want you to go to this
spreadsheet and make this change and do
this thing and then take that
calculation and put it in a memo. It's
like very detailed. And I think the next
step is how do we give the model as much
ambiguity as you would give a report in
the real world like you know if a
manager asked like hey can you run this
analysis for me they should go figure
out what to do put that together run the
analysis and give you an output. And so
I think um we've been working a lot on
like more realistic ways to measure real
work in the real world whether that's in
like science for personal use or even
for enterprise.
>> There is seems to be something to the
idea of instead of hiding a benchmark,
putting it out there because internally
as an org you go like, "Okay, this can't
stand."
>> Yeah, it's it really motivates research
also. I think people want to know the
truth and they want to know where we can
be better and
deliver better model for our users. And
so, knowing the gaps is quite useful.
>> What do you think the current
limitations are right now with the ways
that we're doing the evals?
>> I think the types of work that we're
doing now with with Codex and with our
latest reasoning models like 55, it's
just such a different level of
capability than what we had even 6
months ago where
a static benchmark just doesn't measure
the long like the the nature of how long
you can get work out of these things.
Like
these models can work for days or weeks
for you. And like internally in
research, we've had the models just like
run for really long periods of time to
do work. And one of the problems with an
automated eval is you kind of need it to
run within some amount of time and get
results to be able to look at them. And
a lot of the ways that we're measuring
models now also just include looking at
production usage and looking at
real-world use by people and seeing what
they're using it for and what types of
tasks they're able to get done because
the time horizon of how much work is
done by the model is just getting so
much longer.
>> It was interesting watching for instance
long context. There was kind of this
early race for companies to say that,
"Hey, our models can take, you know,
100,000 tokens, a million tokens,
whatever." But there wasn't a lot of
evaluation on how well that was. And
then we got needle in the haystack,
which was a method of saying if it could
find a word or whatever. And I think
that people sort of
assumed that that was a solved problem,
but it wasn't. It was just the
benchmarks weren't really good. And then
we had to have better benchmarks. And is
that what kind of made it better was
finally people could one spend more
attention solving that problem when they
understood where it was failing?
>> Yeah, we definitely have better
benchmarks for this sort of thing now.
And then also sometimes these problems
reveal gaps in how we're thinking about
training. So, one example is we used to
think, "Oh, what matters is just how
much context you can stuff into the
model at test time." Well, now it seems
that you can just dump a bunch of files
in a container and the model can kind of
grep around and search for what it needs
and when. And like this ability to have
search or tools to figure out what
context you should use can be more
efficient than just stuffing everything
in the context. And we wouldn't have
really realized that without trying that
out and then seeing how that performed
on various benchmarks. So, um I think
that makes it this like makes the model
a lot more useful because, for example,
now the model can like search over a
whole repo and like find the files that
you need and like understand the context
of where you're making changes. And the
same is true for many work contexts
where, you know, folks in Codex can now
like upload their local file system and
like, you know, you might have made
PowerPoints before or sent slacks that
are um relevant to the work that you're
doing now and the model can sort of
search over that context with tool
calls. Um and so we're not as limited by
how much you can literally stuff into
context cuz the model can search.
>> Do you have any favorite evals?
>> My favorite eval? I mean, GDP eval is my
favorite public eval.
>> Okay.
>> But I I have many internal evals. But I
will say the name of one of them. It's
called Houdini bench and I cannot
explain further.
>> Oh my god, you know I'm
was a magician, right? So,
>> No.
>> Yeah, I am. Yeah, I know.
>> Maybe I don't know if you'd pass Houdini
bench.
>> No, [snorts] I probably not pass Houdini
bench. That was actually one of the
things that I was played around with
some of the early vision models and
stuff was was using stuff photographs
and stuff of magic tricks and stuff and
seeing this.
>> That's very cool. Yeah, multimodal
brings a whole new element. Um
like uh I remember when 4.0 had first
come out, there was a group of there was
a group of us that was was sitting on
the roof of this building that our minds
were just so blown by the idea of a
real-time voice model. And then we were
like, "How do we even eval this thing?"
Right? Because the whole paradigm of
doing things in text and code and on
your computer is just completely blown
away if there's like a
voice interaction in real time.
Something that was really interesting
about that launch is And we said this
publicly at the time is we actually
delayed the public launch by 6 weeks as
we were figuring out how to make sure
the model was safe.
>> 4.0?
>> Yeah, because this was before the the
elections actually. And so there was
like a lot of worry of Oh, if the model
can in real time talk to you with
realistic sounding voice, could this be
used for persuasive propaganda or this
sort of thing? And it was very cool the
company delayed the launch to make sure
we could build out all these tests and
build build in mitigations to make sure
the models couldn't be used for this
sort of thing.
>> Well, it it seemed like that's a very
complicating factor as these models
became multimodal. I remember early on
with GPT-4 with it being on GPT-4 vision
back when it was that was that you could
you could I could Yeah, I had terrible
handwriting. I could write a prompt and
all of a sudden would solve for this.
And you realize, oh, it's not a text in
prompt, it's a visual prompt. And then
with the audio models when you're doing
audio in, audio out, the model could
emulate things and could do stuff in
such different ways. And so it seems
like that's really Where do you even
begin trying to figure out how you're
going to measure that?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's just a lot of work.
Usually for for any of these we start
with what would humans do in this case?
So like, you know, you would like have a
set of inputs that you put into the
model and a set of outputs you would
evaluate. And then you can like build
up, okay, can we like automate some of
these? Can we build a new platform to
measure this sort of thing at scale? And
sort of move from there. But for some of
the natively multimodal, it's just like
you have to like rip apart a bunch of
your infra and make make stuff work.
Like this was also true with Sora for
you know, we were interested in making
sure the videos weren't overly realistic
or could be used for the wrong thing.
And that required like especially from
safety building up a whole new stack of
evals and mitigations like including
refusals at the model level, monitoring
when this was being used in prod.
And yeah, it requires a whole new stack
of thinking.
>> Yeah, well that that's the thing too is
that when you start to think about,
okay, how do you prioritize one eval
over another? When do you decide that
this isn't it or do you just sort of go
like this one's saturated, we move on?
And cuz there is even though you may not
be trying to optimize towards certain
public benchmarks, you still have to
figure out like what were what what's
important to us now like
there was a time when
OpenAI was leading in code and then
there was a time when it wasn't. Now
there is a time that it is, but there
was a dark period where that happened
and
>> Yeah, we try not to be get distracted by
public benchmarks too much because it
can be kind of noisy. I think the
internally we have this thing called AGI
index which is inspired by the idea of
like CPI or inflation where you have
like some weighted basket of goods and
you're tracking the price of those
goods.
For the same thing for us it's we have
like this basket of evals that include
measurements across all of the core
areas we're interested in like they can
include alignment, it can include
safety, it can include capabilities.
It's just sort of what you want from
your model and we just iterate we like
keep updating that index to represent
more and more sort of the difficult
version of what we want our models to do
and we sort of track that index
internally and try not to be distracted
by
you know trying to
benchmark some public benchmark or
something like that. It's more having a
blend of evals across different domains
that we care about across science or
work and then also safety and alignment
and making sure we keep making progress
on that sort of weighted basket. Um try
to stay focused.
>> You We've watched this evolution of
these evals. We've watched the evolution
of the models and I've talked to people
here working in the sciences like people
who are active in the science not just
researchers who like science or like
computer science but people who are in
biology, mathematics. Can you tell me
what's going on with the evals in the
scientific frontier because we're at
this point now it seems like we're going
to see meaningful results.
>> Yeah, I think the the work in some of
our science evals is some of our most
exciting. So, in the past few months,
there's a few tiers of evals that we've
made public. So, the first tier was this
eval called Frontier Science Olympiad,
which was kind of
the equivalent to the math Olympiad
style evals that we had before where we
were measuring how well the models could
do on like high school Olympiad style
problems in biology, chemistry, and
physics. And they were sort of shorter
answer, but still quite hard, and the
models weren't very good yet.
And then the next phase we did was
Frontier Science Research, which is also
public and people can run this,
which measured how well models could
help complete sort of unfinished
biology, chemistry, and physics theses.
So, we had people who were PhDs or
professors in these fields that had some
text that was not published, like maybe
[clears throat] part of their thesis,
and just turned that into an evaluation
where the model was given maybe some
input data or some initial starting
point, and it had to sort of see how
it'd fill out the rest of that paper and
judge against a rubric for how well it
did. And you know, that's starting to
measure really, okay, are the models
starting to do research? Like, are they
using tools? This sort of thing. And
then, one of the final iterations of
this was to see how well the model could
do in the real world in a wet lab. And
so, we worked with this company called
Ginkgo Bioworks that has a bunch of
really cool automated wet lab robots
where the model had to optimize this
protocol for protein synthesis. And the
idea was the model would generate a
protocol, and then they would actually
automatically test it in the wet lab
where they would like put in the
reagents the model suggested and then
see what protein yield they got. Um, and
this was for a protein that's like sort
of related to this ovarian cancer drug
or it's like it's sort of a toy scenario
for that. And the model like, we were
really nervous at first because we were
like, this human baseline's kind of
hard. We don't know if the model's going
to beat it. But we should never
underestimate the models because, you
know, it's just like the curve is pretty
pretty clear. Just every cycle got
better and better, beat the human
baseline, and then set the state of the
art on how um the model could cost per
yield generate this protein. And I think
that's just the start of how if we give
these models optimization problems like
you know, go try to figure out how
inexpensive you can make this vaccine or
you know, generate synthesize this
protein that's important for a drug, the
model can just go and keep optimizing
these protocols with real-world inputs.
And it was one of our first time
de-risking an eval that's actually
connected to the real world like
>> [snorts]
>> we weren't waiting for a piece of code
to run. We were waiting for the robot to
finish the experiment so we could record
um how much protein was synthesized. And
yeah, I just think the models are going
to do so much science for us. It's going
to be really interesting.
>> Well, that was exciting cuz that was
just like I think GPT-5 and it hadn't
gone through any sort of here's how to
be a scientist. And now these models
have progressed a lot since then you
have a lot more real-world experience
with this.
>> Yeah, that wasn't even with one of our
best models. It was like just an early
reasoning model. Um and so I think yeah
all of these things stack like we'll
have better pre-training, we have better
RL and post-training and we're going to
get a lot better at using these models
at test time to really elicit their
capabilities. And I think the next
generation of evals is really about how
can we have these models take actions in
the real world and solve sort of
unsolved problems for us that would take
humans a long time, you know, some of
these scientific problems that we
haven't been able to put enough effort
against. It's like well, now we have all
of these agents that can spend compute
to solve problems for us and try to
steer them towards what would be useful.
>> It It does seem like that brings in a
new challenge though. Do you think that
evals are going to get a bit a lot more
complex?
>> Yeah, I mean we have the saying on our
team that pain is the moat. I really
think a lot of [laughter] operations in
the physical world will become part of
the bottlenecks in being able to measure
what the models can do because
even just starting with digital, there's
so much more scaffolding and
infrastructure work we need to do to run
these like now if you want to test how
well Codex does, it's like well the
model is calling APIs. It's like taking
actions on your computer and in your
browser. It's making artifacts for you.
It's writing and running and executing
that code. Um it's just so much more
complex to measure that model and that's
only digital. Now, if you want them to
measure how the model could interact
with the physical world, there's all
sorts of ops and logistics that you need
to have a really smooth process for to
see how you can deploy these things at
scale and um yeah, I think a lot of the
work is actually shifting from being
like theory or math or even programming.
Like I feel like people don't program
that much. They just ask Codex and more
shifting towards like planning,
operations, physical stuff or at least
at least my job has shifted a lot that
way. Um
and those things are very hard. It's
actually kind of easy to just like write
something like in a corner. Um it's a
lot harder when you have to manage all
of these operations and logistics.
>> It's exciting, but it seems like part of
the challenge is these aren't just
simple evals anymore. They take more
compute, they take more time. When
you're trying to do a long horizon eval,
you know, it's long. You have to wait a
long time to get the outcome on that.
>> Yeah, definitely. So, it's both a lot
more work to come up with the evals and
run them at scale and also if the you
know, the work takes a longer amount of
time, we don't get the signal as fast.
So, we have to invest more in scaling
laws where we can predict, okay, well,
if by one day the model looks like this,
then we can forecast that at 7 days it
would look like this and sort of come up
with trends that we can so that we can
get signal faster. Otherwise, we're just
like stuck there waiting for a week to
get an update, which is not the most
productive way to spend time.
>> I have certain benchmarks and things I
used to test every time a new model
comes out to find out how it's
personally useful to me. And it's one of
the things I tell people who run
businesses or other things is think
about your own evals, things that will
tell you where something is because
sometimes people might try something
like they might try chat GPT 6 months
ago and go like,
"Ah, it wasn't good. It didn't do this."
They don't realize how fast things move.
Do you have any advice for people on how
to figure out how to come up with a
benchmark?
>> Yeah, I mean, if things move really
fast, things change every couple of
weeks and I feel like people are not as
awake about In my job, I'm one of the
first people in the world to see some of
the most powerful models, so I'm
extremely AGI filled and I think
progress is happening a lot faster.
>> What have I seen?
>> [laughter]
>> I've seen good models, man.
Yeah, but progress is happening a lot
faster than people would think. And I
think the best eval, honestly, is just
to dog food or use the model. Like
people should just try to use the models
as much as they can. And even if there
are things that they think the model
didn't do well on one week, they should
just try it again the next week. It'll
probably work.
>> I think that's one of the things that
should be obvious to people kind of
outside of AI is how really good
frontier AI companies are using these
tools internally, and that's why things
are speeding up and getting more
capable.
>> Yeah, I basically try to have the model
take a first pass of everything
>> Mhm.
>> that I do. Like whether it's, you know,
sending a Slack message, like
understanding what experiment to perform
next, like any management stuff, ops,
logistics, like you have the model take
a first pass. And then if the model's
not good, we like figure out how to put
that in the eval.
>> I'm excited about the computer using
evals. Like just watching the
performance of Codex with computer use
is just light-years over where it was
just, you know, maybe eight months ago.
And it seems like those things are just
going to get faster and better. My my
prediction's like probably by the end of
the year it'll use my computer better
and faster than I do.
>> Yeah. Yes, I think so. The models have
some advantages over you, right? Like
they can call a
connector or plug-in, which is a much
faster mode of communication than you on
your computer having to like go click
into a service and like understand every
page and then copy some data back and
forth. Or even writing writing some
service to call that API or MCP or
whatever. It's like more work for the
human than it for the model. So the
model has that advantage. And the models
can just be faster and if it's trained
to navigate a browser or
or a desktop through whether it's
through accessibility tree or through
code.
So the models have an advantage over us.
And I think um a long time there was
really no product deployment that was
very effective. Yet like we launched
operator and ChatGPT agent a while ago,
and those were really useful for showing
like this could be possible, but the
latency on those models was just too
high. Like they were just super slow.
And I don't think people use them
at super high scale yet, but we've now
reached sort of a tipping point where
doing things like asking the model to
read my Slack for me or like go schedule
a bunch of calendar invites and like
optimize the rooms is faster for me than
it it would have been um to do it
myself. And I think yeah, people are not
ready. Also, a lot of people haven't
tried this stuff out cuz it's all
launched so recently, but everyone
should go get the computer use plugins
and like use those and like install all
of the plugins and all the good
connectors that will make things faster.
Then you'll be mind-blown.
>> Let's talk about uh frontier evals.
>> Yeah. So, the goal of the frontier evals
team is really to measure and forecast
progress of the frontier models at
OpenAI to better understand where we
are, where we're going, and sort of try
to share that with the world. And one of
the things I think the team has tried to
do is to help publish and open source as
much that we can. So, you know, some
evals that we've helped open source
include like SweetBench Verified, which
helped measure progress on coding, MLE
Bench, which was a way to measure how
well models could train other models and
sort of track the progress of machine
learning engineering skills in our
models, um PaperBench, which was a way
to measure how well models could
replicate real top machine learning
papers um from like ICML or ICLR, um
and GDP eval, which you know, helped
measure how well models could perform on
real-world tasks across, you know, over
40 occupations. And the goal for all of
these has been
you know, the models might not seem good
now, but if you just plot how they
increase with each, you know, the the
results that improve with each model
generation, often when people say like,
"Oh, well, I expect this will take like
a year or whatever." They like over
>> Mhm.
>> they over um
ex- expect in terms of how much time it
will take to saturate a benchmark. And
like even my own or people on my team's
predictions are often like not ambitious
enough for how fast things will change.
And so I just think we're trying to do
our service in helping inform the world
about um what is possible. I think some
of these research acceleration evals in
particular are quite um interesting.
Like when we first started, we had this
eval called the OpenAI research
interview eval, which was just taking
the researcher questions that we asked
people applying to OpenAI and putting
those in an eval. And the model blasted
through that like pretty pretty quickly.
It's like definitely can pass our
interviews right now. Um which I think
has caused a whole other slew of
downstream questions on like how do we
make sure people don't cheat on the
interviews and like how do we actually
measure research talent? Um
But I think all of this is very useful
because um measuring internal progress
is it's like kind of a way to measure
the lever by which the models will keep
getting better faster. Like sort of the
acceleration of the slope of
improvement, so to speak. And um yeah, I
think having ways to measure model
progress is
is just good information.
>> I've heard that in some of the evals
that were out there for a while, that it
turned out that there were actually
errors in the questions. That that was
an issue with some of the evals. That
that was some of the publicly available
ones were
actually you couldn't score above a
certain level. And if you did, it was
actually because you were training on
the data. And people looked at that and
found out like, "Oh, there's actually
this is not the right answer."
>> Yeah, this is a problem with a lot of
public benchmarks, I think. Like so the
original reason for SWE bench verified
was because we wanted to run SWE bench
and it was half the problems were like
either broken or under specified. And
you know, people in the industry were
publishing results on this as some
metric of how well you did. And we were
like, "Well, we should at least try to
fix it." And then like share that so we
can have a better yardstick. Um but I
think one of the reasons that public
benchmarks maybe aren't always as you
know
battle tested as we'd like is that not
they they tend to be like you know
someone in in a lab like an academic lab
like had a good idea and like wanted to
write a paper but they never had to run
that eval at scale and like production
training run or production like level
eval sweep for a launch and just when
you run some of this stuff at scale it
like breaks or falls over and you like
catch all of these bugs
and so I kind of think sitting in a lab
and being closer to product is a forcing
function for making sure the quality of
your measurements is really high because
like we're not doing this like look good
in a paper we're like doing this like it
has to work because it has to work for
our systems at scale so it kind of
forces the quality to be high.
>> And it it seems like kind of one of the
things that can happen is these models
become incredibly capable sometimes
they're very good at
sometimes they can solve a problem but
they'll take sort of the laziest path
and kind of they can they can give you
the memorized answer instead of solving
it and we saw that with like counting in
like how many words are in a how many
letters in a character or a word or
whatever and it was often the model if
you prompt it right it would get the
answer right but if you didn't prompt it
the right way it would just sort of
throw you an answer.
>> Yeah that brings up all sorts of
interesting
concepts I mean so there's this one
concept of memorization which is the
idea that the model literally knows the
answer and doesn't have to really think
or reason to solve it's just like
regurgitating something it already knows
and that makes the measurement not super
useful because you're just measuring
whether you happen to have trained on
trained on that data a ton versus
whether the model learned the skill that
you or tool or capability you were
trying to measure so that's one way to
avoid that is to try to be really clean
and disciplined about your data not
including any benchmarks or any evals
that you want to measure and that helps
solve sort of the first problem that you
laid out
so so that that that's one thing and
then there's there's this other thing
where like the model can kind of like
reward hack or sometimes like cheat to
solve any eval and that's very much a
question of having clean eval design
where you like sort of test these at
scale see if there's any hacks, make
sure those environments that you're
testing don't have the hacks as
something that's possible for the model
to do. And that just requires a lot of
quality control to make sure like the
eval is not overly hackable.
Uh yeah.
>> Yeah, cuz it seems like there were some
very simple ones like grade school math
and whatnot that models if you just
change it a little bit, some of the
early models would get confused and give
you the wrong answer that it was
actually capable of solving it. But it
just goes, "Oh, I this one I got it."
And then, you know, that's happened to
like you know, should I drive my car to
the car wash? You have a problem.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. So like the models can
get tricked. To me like the model
doesn't like if it didn't get a good do
well on that like it it should have been
smarter. Like we we should also like
have the models be a bit more robust to
being tricked. But this also um relates
to this idea of capability elicitation
or like trying to measure the models in
the best way, which is especially
important for our safety testing. Like
for example, if you want to measure how
well the model can, you know, find
vulnerabilities or um
you know, do some of the cybersecurity
stuff. You want to make sure the model's
not just getting tricked by the problem.
Like that you really measured the true
capability. And so there's a lot of like
prompt tuning and like changing the
harness and sometimes like even doing
like a fine-tune to get the model
maximally ready to solve that challenge
that we do to make sure
um if we say, "Oh, the model's not good
at some like very risky capability." We
can be a bit more sure before we say
that.
>> When I was a kid, I loved uh reading
these Encyclopedia Brown stories, these
little mysteries and you had to solve
them. And with GPT-4, I would write
custom ones for it just in case somebody
had like tipped all these answers to it
out there. But that was a pain to kind
of do that. And it's exciting to think
now I can have a model write something
or come up with some new eval. So how
helpful have the models been now for
>> Yeah, um
they're semi-useful.
>> Yeah, okay.
>> Um I think we're in this like phase of
model development where um
sometimes
the outputs are still kind of sloppy.
>> Yeah.
>> They require like um human QC or like
oversight to make sure the quality is
still high and like we're not getting
tricked. So, I would say people
sometimes are surprised that we still
have a lot of human in intervention and
involvement in the evals just because
that's something, you know, evals can be
a lower end than training data and you
want to make sure every single point
that you're testing, every data point,
is very high quality. Um
and so, this is one of the areas where
like a human touch can be quite nice.
>> We're seeing some interesting trends
where jobs that actually touch AI seem
to be more in demand because it's made
people more productive. How are you
tracking this? How do you look for areas
where you think this is going to have an
impact?
>> Yeah, these are very difficult
questions. Um
I think that
uh our I think people are not calibrated
to how much work our models will be able
to do
um and how quickly like across a a wide
variety of jobs. And um
right now the models are still mostly
just good at tasks versus a job. Like
there's a lot to a job than a task.
Right? Like you have to figure out what
you want to work on, navigate like
ambiguity, like you might have
co-workers that you're collaborating
with and like communicating with. And
then you might like figure out what task
you want to do and then give that to a
model. And that's kind of the phase
we're at now where it's a lot of I mean,
even in my job, the the model is like
doing individual tasks for me, but I'm
still doing a lot of the thinking and
planning um and that sort of thing. And
I think people aren't even calibrated to
that. Like I feel like people in
software and research are a lot more
calibrated or by calibrated I mean like
realize how capable the models are um
compared to some of my friends in other
industries. And I like wish people just
tried the models more and saw because
the people who try and see first, like
they'll start to really get it. Um but I
also think the models are going to start
to be able to do the stuff like the
delegating part at some point, too. Um
maybe not too far from now. The um
figuring out what to work on, navigating
ambiguity, like writing the spec that
the model then executes on. And people
should really start to think about okay,
what is what happened in the maximally
AGI built world where even just for
digital
work, the model can come up with what to
do, do it, execute it on it, like
interact with the real world, like you
know, if it's, you know, there's entire
businesses that now like you see like
stories of like unicorns that where it
was like mostly AI and a few employees
that were like able to drive all of this
value.
Um,
and so I do think there's this question
of, you know, are we realizing how big
this will be?
>> Personally, I think the opportunity
space is getting bigger. Everybody I
know, the most the most AGI built people
I know, the people who are using tools
like Codex all the time are doing way
more now. They're more productive now
because they don't have to do the tasks
and the jobs as the AI gets better to
handle certain jobs, like cool, there
are five jobs I need done now cuz I can
do more. And I think that we just think
about the the the light cone of the
potential where we can be is bigger than
we can imagine. And I think these tools
just help us get there faster, not
narrow it.
>> I think there is probably some mix of
things.
>> Yeah.
>> Even if you have models that can speed
up paperwork, like think about it like
like a clinical trial for a drug, right?
It's like you people spend months
putting together gather all this
paperwork, like hundreds of pages of
like why they should be able to do the
trial. And they like submit it to the
FDA. And then there's like a 35% chance
it got rejected because they like made a
mistake or forgot something. They
revise. Then finally you can do the
trial. And you know, these processes are
are good, but it just takes a long time.
And then the trial is, you know, you
have a case and a control or whatever
and you're like documenting symptoms um
and tracking these for like just
documenting what happens for a long time
and then doing a bunch of data analysis.
Like a lot of this is just documentation
or data analysis or sort of like very
classically digital work. And I think if
models can help accelerate all parts of
this, you know, for health, for energy,
manufacturing, policy research,
education, like this will be very
accelerative. We will have, hopefully,
you know, faster, cheaper, better goods.
And that's really good for people. It's
like very good for the individual
consumer. So, I think that is like
something people should be excited
about. But, we should be very thoughtful
about how to navigate the transition to
that world um
in a way that's thoughtful and like um
responsible.
>> Excellent.
Thank you, Chiejina.
>> Thank you for having me.